PTbA#y PT7bA#y PT4bA#y PTbA#y P1TB5bA#y1 P1TB6bA#y1 P1TB8bA#y1 PT3bA#y
No: I-26-001 February 10, 2026
CONTACT: Scott Burnell, 301-415-8204
NRC Proposes $9,000 Fine Against Puerto Rico Medical Facility
for Loss of Radioactive Material
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has proposed a $9,000 civil penalty to Rio Piedras
Sono-Nuclear Center for a violation of NRC requirements involving the loss of licensed material.
In May 2025 Rio Piedras Sono-Nuclear, located in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico, notified the NRC that
an unused vial of lutetium-177 had been improperly disposed of. The vial holding the isotope, which is
used for targeted nuclear medicine therapy for certain types of tumors and prostate cancer, was inside its
lead transfer container, which was in a cardboard shipping box, when the shipping box was disposed of.
No radiation overexposures are believed to have occurred.
An NRC inspection from May-June 2025 reviewed the details of the loss of radioactive material.
The agency identified one apparent violation of NRC requirements related to the failure to appropriately
dispose of NRC-licensed materials. The NRC documented the inspection and the proposed violation in a
December 2025 report.
Rio Piedras Sono-Nuclear has instituted corrective actions that include additional procedures on
the proper handling of shipping boxes to ensure they are empty prior to disposal. The facility has
documented completing additional training for its nuclear medicine staff on these new procedures. The
NRC has concluded that the company’s response to the violation is adequate and compliance with NRC
requirements has been addressed.
The company has 30 days to pay the proposed penalty, contest the penalty in writing, or request
alternative dispute resolution with the NRC to resolve this issue.
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission was created as an expert, technical agency to protect public health,
safety, and security, and regulate the civilian use of nuclear materials, including enabling the deployment of
nuclear power for the benefit of society. Among other responsibilities, the agency issues licenses, conducts
inspections, initiates and enforces regulations, and plans for incident response. The global gold standard for
nuclear regulation, the NRC is collaborating with interagency partners to implement reforms outlined in new
Executive Orders and the ADVANCE Act to streamline agency activities and enhance efficiency.